You're absolutely right—questions like these can seem daunting in an interview, especially under time pressure. However, breaking down complex problems into simpler, manageable steps is a key skill in technical interviews, and it can be developed through practice. Here's a detailed breakdown of how you could approach a problem like identifying subgrids in a Sudoku board during an interview:

1. Break the Problem into Simpler Parts
Interviewers aren't necessarily expecting you to immediately know the solution, but they want to see how you approach the problem. Here's a step-by-step guide on how you might tackle this kind of problem:

Step 1: Understand the Problem
The first thing you need to do is to make sure you fully understand the problem. In this case, you're asked to validate a Sudoku board, which means you need to ensure no duplicates in:

Rows
Columns
3x3 subgrids
So, the task is to track which numbers you've seen in each row, column, and subgrid.

Step 2: Identify the Core Components
Start thinking about what data structure could help you manage this.

For rows, you can use an array or a map where the row index is the key, and the value is a Set to track which numbers you've seen in that row.
For columns, you can use a similar structure.
For subgrids (the 3x3 regions), you need to find a way to map each cell to a unique subgrid.
At this stage, you don't need the exact formula for subgrids yet—focus on recognizing the structure of the problem and deciding which data structures can solve it.

Step 3: Handling the Subgrids
Now that you've identified rows and columns, you come to the more challenging part: subgrids. Ask yourself, "How do I group cells into 3x3 grids?"

At this point, it's helpful to visualize the board:

css
Copy code
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
-------------------------
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
-------------------------
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
[ 0 1 2 | 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 ]
You can clearly see that the grid is divided into regions. Now, start thinking of how to group the rows and columns together.

The key observation here is:

The 3x3 subgrids are determined by groups of rows and columns.
Rows 0-2 belong to the first group.
Rows 3-5 belong to the second group.
Rows 6-8 belong to the third group.
The same grouping applies for the columns.
At this point, you don't necessarily need the formula yet, but you can understand that:

Row 0-2 and Column 0-2 is subgrid 0.
Row 0-2 and Column 3-5 is subgrid 1, and so on.
Once you've visualized this, try experimenting with math to calculate how you can group cells.

Step 4: Derive the Formula
If you're stuck, just try experimenting with dividing row and column indices by 3 (Math.floor(r / 3) and Math.floor(c / 3)) to see if you can group them correctly. At this point, the interviewer is probably looking to see how you reason through the problem, so explain your thought process out loud.

Once you see that dividing r and c by 3 groups them into the correct subgrids, you can derive the formula:

js
Copy code
(Math.floor(r / 3) * 3 + Math.floor(c / 3))
This gives each subgrid a unique ID, which you can now use as the key in a Map or Set to track the numbers you've seen in each subgrid.

2. How to Approach Similar Problems in Interviews
Interviews are as much about problem-solving approach as they are about getting the right answer. Here's how you can systematically approach problems like this:

A. Ask Clarifying Questions
Start by asking clarifying questions to make sure you fully understand the problem. For example:

"Can the board have empty cells?"
"Do I need to validate all rows, columns, and subgrids?"
This helps you break the problem down and shows the interviewer you're thinking critically.

B. Identify the Constraints
In a Sudoku problem, you have a fixed grid size (9x9). That gives you a sense of how complex the solution can be. You know that, for each number, you need to check a small number of constraints (rows, columns, subgrids), which narrows down the possible solutions.

C. Think Out Loud
As you're thinking about how to solve the problem, explain your thought process to the interviewer. Even if you're not sure about the exact solution, sharing your reasoning can demonstrate that you're approaching the problem logically.

For example:

"I know I need to check for duplicates in rows, columns, and subgrids."
"For rows and columns, I can track the seen numbers using a Set."
"Now, I need to figure out how to track the subgrids."
D. Break the Problem Down
Don’t feel pressured to come up with the full solution immediately. Break the problem down into parts:

First, solve rows.
Then, solve columns.
Finally, handle the subgrids.
By doing this, you're showing the interviewer that you can decompose a large problem into smaller, manageable pieces.

E. Experiment and Iterate
If you're unsure how to proceed (for example, with the subgrid identification), experiment with different ideas. In the case of Sudoku subgrids, you might:

Try to group the rows and columns manually first.
Then, experiment with mathematical operations like division to see how you can generalize the grouping.
F. Practice Pattern Recognition
Many coding problems, especially in interviews, are variations of common problem-solving patterns (e.g., sliding windows, two-pointer techniques, dynamic programming, etc.). Over time, with enough practice, you'll begin to recognize patterns like these. The more practice you have, the more quickly you'll be able to recall similar solutions.

3. Why Some People Seem Faster at Solving These Problems
Some developers seem to come up with solutions faster, and that’s often due to:

Experience: They have solved many similar problems before, so they've developed a mental library of patterns.
Practice: They've practiced breaking down problems under time constraints, which helps them focus on the most important parts of the problem.
Pattern Recognition: Over time, certain types of problems (like Sudoku validation) start to feel familiar, and they know how to approach them step by step.
4. How You Can Improve
Practice Regularly: Sites like LeetCode, HackerRank, and Codeforces provide a variety of problems that you can solve under time pressure.
Focus on Problem Solving Techniques: Learn common problem-solving patterns (e.g., sliding window, backtracking, dynamic programming).
Reflect on Your Approach: After solving a problem, think about how you broke it down and how you could improve. Try to explain the solution to yourself or someone else to solidify your understanding.
Mock Interviews: Try mock interviews with peers or online platforms. The more you practice under real interview conditions, the more comfortable you'll become.
Conclusion
In interviews, it's not about instantly knowing the solution—it's about systematically approaching the problem, breaking it down, and reasoning through it step by step. With practice, you can train your mind to recognize patterns and come up with solutions more quickly and efficiently, just like identifying the subgrid in a Sudoku board.